art_id	art_title	art_parent	art_content	art_type
NHIN1	Process Laboratory Order: Laboratory creates the test results and sends the results to the data repository for availability to the ordering clinician and other providers of care  if appropriate.			
NHIN2	Verify integrity of test result (file) contents and that the results came from the identified source.			
NHIN3	Authorize release of laboratory test results: Test results released to clinician based on verification as ordering clinician or provider of care status and other appropriate restrictions for use.			
NHIN4	Process Request for Laboratory Test Results: The data repository receives a request for test result content and verifies the authenticity of the clinician  the integrity of the request  and any restrictions for use.			
NHIN5	The test results should contain appropriate patient information and other information per agreed to standards and policies.			
NHIN6	Providers of care should be known.			
NHIN7	Where new results cannot be unequivocally matched with a patient  an exception list should be produced to allow human resolution			
NHIN8	View results using another clinical data system (non-EHR system): Not all clinicians will initially have an EHR to view lab test results. The clinician may view lab test results using a clinical data system (non-EHR).			
NHIN9	Send request for lab test result content to data repository(ies): The clinician selects data repository(ies) from which to retrieve lab test results and sends a request(s). The request is sent via a web application  or other clinical data system.			
NHIN10	Lab results are viewed through a web application or other clinical data system.			
NHIN11	Print lab results			
NHIN12	Save lab results in local system for viewing at a later time: This action assumes that no EHR system is available. The clinician may wish to save lab results to the local system to review at a later time. This is distinct from importing the data into the EHR.			
NHIN13	Verify correct patient identity and correctness of lab results and error correct if necessary: Upon review of the result  a clinician may see suspect data (e.g. that should be confidential  or may be erroneous). Error correction communication is a manual process.			
NHIN14	Acknowledge receipt of lab results: Upon receipt of the lab result the clinical data system sends an acknowledgement to the NHIE.			
NHIN15	Log interaction with data repository			
NHIN16	Send acknowledgment to laboratory that integrity  authenticity and completeness of results are found.			
NHIN17	Store test lab results			
NHIN18	Store lab results in data repository system and note any restrictions for use (e.g.  providers of care list  patient consent restrictions  or sensitivity restrictions).			
NHIN19	Transmit lab test results to ordering clinician and other providers of care if appropriate			
NHIN20	Log receipt and storage of lab test results			
NHIN21	Authenticate to locator service			
NHIN22	Create test results			
NHIN23	Send result location and related information to locator service. This should contain appropriate patient information and other information per agreed to standards and policies. Restrictions for use should also be provided by data repository (from laboratory) if not provided through supporting community or regional services.			
NHIN24	Log interaction with locator system			
NHIN25	methods to identify and authenticate users.			
NHIN26	methods to identify and determine providers of care.			
NHIN27	methods to enforce data access authorization policies.			
NHIN28	methods to ensure the veracity of data 			
NHIN29	methods to correctly match patients across systems.			
NHIN30	Clinicians have registered with the HIE and consumer access consents have been established			
NHIN31	Clinicians securely access lab test results either through an EHR system (local or remote) or a clinical data system.			
NHIN32	Security and privacy policies  procedures and practices are commonly implemented to support acceptable levels of patient privacy and security.			
NHIN33	Send results to data repository			
NHIN34	Appropriate standards protocols; patient identification methodology; consent; privacy and security procedures; coding  vocabulary and normalization standards have been agreed to by all relevant participants.			
NHIN35	Legal and governance policies regarding data access authorizations  data ownership  and data use are in effect.			
NHIN36	Secure electronic transport and consent as defined by the HITSP security and privacy constructs is assumed between sender(s) and receiver(s)			
NHIN37	The data repository receives a request for test result content and verifies the authenticity of the clinician  the integrity of the request  and any restrictions for use.			
NHIN38	The data repository either sends the test results for integration into the clinician’s EHR  or sends the content to another clinical data system for viewing.			
NHIN39	The secrecy of the content is maintained during transmission.			
NHIN40	Receive and validate the query request			
NHIN41	Parse  validate  and acknowledge received data query requests.			
NHIN42	Authenticate and verify as ordering clinician or provider of care: May include provider identification and validation of credentials  privileges and/or other authorization.			
NHIN43	The laboratory transmits the results to the data repository with appropriate metadata necessary for indexing and browse/query response.			
NHIN44	Authentication and verification may be provided through community or regional services. This may include a trust relationship whereby the clinician is authenticated and authorized once by the community or regional service.			
NHIN45	The authentication and verification is then carried through the query/retrieval processes.			
NHIN46	Test results released to clinician based on verification as ordering clinician or provider of care status and other appropriate restrictions for use.			
NHIN47	Transmit lab results of an identified patient to an ordering clinician or provider of care			
NHIN48	The means of transport will vary depending on whether an EHR system is available to receive the results  or if a web application is used.			
NHIN49	Receive lab test result as ordering clinician or provider of care: New test results  upon completion  may be sent directly to the clinician’s EHR system (local or remote) without an intermediate request action.			
NHIN50	Send request for historical lab test result content to data repository(ies): The clinician selects data repository(ies) from which to retrieve lab test results and sends a request(s). The request may be sent from the EHR system or via web application.			
NHIN51	Submit authentication information to the data repository			
NHIN52	Confirm data integrity of received results: Upon receiving the test result set (messages)  the EHR system confirms that the message was received in a complete and unchanged format.			
NHIN53	The data repository may be within the laboratory  may be a separate entity  or may be part of a community or regional service provider			
NHIN54	Parse and validate results content: The EHR system opens and parses each electronic result. Individual records are checked for appropriate information  completeness  proper codes  and patient identifying information.			
NHIN55	Merge data into EHR: The EHR aggregates patient data from each data repository. Each received record is processed and correlated to a patient in the EHR system. Where new results cannot be unequivocally matched with a patient  an exception list should be produced to allow human resolution			
NHIN56	New results are flagged within EHR: The EHR system should provide a clear indicator as to the status the review process of all results by clinicians			
NHIN57	Acknowledge receipt of lab results: A message is sent to the lab data repository indicating which results were successfully processed and indicates any results that were undeliverable and unprocessed.			
NHIN58	Log receipt of lab test results: Include patient consent information in log.			
NHIN59	Produce exception list of errors: Where inbound lab results records cannot be unequivocally matched with the EHR  an exception list is produced to allow human resolution			
NHIN60	Query for laboratory (historical) test results: The clinician queries the locator service for the availability and location of lab test results for a specified patient and receives the location of the results.			
NHIN61	Queries to the locator service could be accomplished either through the EHR user interface directly or through another clinical data system.			
NHIN62	Submit authentication: Establish clinician’s identity and verify whether clinician is a provider of care			
NHIN63	Receive test results from laboratory.			
NHIN64	One of many authentication methods could be used (biometrics  card  token or user ID and password  cryptographic techniques).			
NHIN65	Clinician and locator system agree on patient identity through patient trait matching			
NHIN66	The clinician and locator system must verify that they are interacting about the same patient.			
NHIN67	Patient identity may be agreed upon by a number of means including demographic information  agreed-to mapping of patient IDs  or shared patient ID.The means is dependent on whether the locator service is provided by a third-party  or part of available community or regional services.			
NHIN68	A set of traits (such as name  DOB  gender  etc.) may be used by a locator service to perform a probabilistic match.			
NHIN69	Business rules could be established across a community or region to determine minimum acceptable combinations of traits (for example  name-only searches not allowed without a DOB).			
NHIN70	Provides the functionality for a priori agreed to identifiers by the clinician and locator service and lab data repository.			
NHIN71	Clinician and locator system agree on patient identity based on shared MPI: If the entity to which the clinician is affiliated (hospital  HMO  private physician practice  etc.) has already registered the patient internally and uploaded the entry into a shared MPI  the provider can capture and submit the entity's internal identifier for that patient (e.g.  the patient's medical record number for that hospital) to a locator service.		In this case  the provider would not need to manually enter demographic traits (name  date of birth [DOB]  etc.) since that data are already present in the MPI.	
NHIN72	Clinician and locator system agree on patient identity based on patient identifier matching			
NHIN73	The locator system matches the patient identifiers supplied by the clinician with patient identifiers known within the locator service.			
NHIN74	The laboratory test results as well as any pertinent information necessary for indexing and browse/query should be provided.			
NHIN75	Transmit request for specific lab test results based on order number or other unique test result identification: The clinician may request specific test results based on a unique identification number  eliminating the need for browsing through all available test results. This can be performed through a web application or through a standards-based query request from the clinician’s EHR.			
NHIN76	Browse  select and confirm the relevant test results for the correct patient and transmit request			
NHIN77	Based on the patient information provided by the clinician (either the entity identifier or demographic traits)  a list of candidate patient matches will be retrieved from the locator service. This list should contain demographic data that will help the clinician determine which of the potential matches actually corresponds to the patient. ...		From the list of candidates previously retrieved  the clinician will select and confirm the entry or entries that correspond to the patient and those applicable to reason for query (e.g. date range  test groups  etc.). The clinician may also determine that none of the candidates in the list are correct matches.	
NHIN78	Receive the data repository location where the test results are stored: The locator service provides pointer (i.e.  links) to the location(s) where the test result(s) are stored. The clinician uses these locations to retrieve the test results.			
NHIN79	Log interaction with locator service			
NHIN80	Clinician should have proper identification/authorization to access patient-specific information everywhere such information exists;			
NHIN81	Clinician should be able to uniquely identify patient for which information has been requested;			
NHIN82	Clinician request will return ALL information available for the specific patient; and			
NHIN83	Proper action should be taken when results updates are sent for error correction  completeness  etc.			
NHIN84	Record locator service should have lab data locations for the specific patient.			
NHIN85	Locations of lab results should be known to record locator service;			
NHIN86	Clinician should be able to retrieve more than 1 record at a time.			
NHIN87	Clinician should have proper identification/authorization to access and review patient-specific information			
NHIN88	Authenticate clinician requesting laboratory test results			
NHIN89	Establish clinician’s identity and verify status as ordering clinician or provider of care.			
NHIN90	Note that the clinician may be an individual  an organization or “system.” The nature of the identification/authentication will be different in each case.			
NHIN91	The clinician and locator system must verify that they are interacting about the same patient. Patient identity may be agreed upon by a number means including demographic information  agreed-to mapping of patient IDs  or shared patient ID. The means is dependent on whether the locator service is provided by a third-party  or part of available community or regional services. A set of traits (such as name  DOB  gender  etc.) may be used by a locator service to perform a probabilistic match. ...		Business rules could be established across a community or region to determine minimum acceptable combinations of traits (for example  name-only searches not allowed without a DOB).	
NHIN92	Verify authenticity of laboratory and lab test result file contents			
NHIN93	Receive request for lab test results based on lab order number or other unique lab test identifier: The clinician may request specific test results based on a unique identification number  eliminating the need for browsing through all available test results. This can be performed through a web application or through a standards-based query request from the clinician’s EHR.			
NHIN94	Provide lab result availability information based on clinician query/browse			
NHIN95	Authorize data release: Test result information released to clinician based on verification as ordering clinician or provider of care status and other appropriate restrictions for use.			
NHIN96	Send lab result location (links) pointers to authorized clinician: The location pointers will be used by the clinician to retrieve the lab test results for either viewing or integration into the EHR.			
NHIN97	Log interaction with clinician			
NHIN98	Queries to the locator service could be accomplished either through the EHR user interface directly or through another clinical data system.			
NHIN99	Submit authentication information to locator system: Establish clinician’s identity and verify whether clinician is a provider of care Note that the clinician may be an individual  an organization or “system”.			
NHIN100	The clinician may request specific test results based on a unique identification number  eliminating the need for browsing through all available test results. This can be performed through a web application or through a standards-based query request from the clinician’s EHR.			
