RQ100	Requirements shall be managed in a 3rd party requirements management tool such as DOORS.
RQ101	Non-requirement artifacts shall be managed in 3rd party tools such as Rational Rose or Clear case
RQ102	Only registered subscribers shall be allowed to establish traces.
RQ103	A user shall register as a subscriber.
RQ104	On registration a subscriber shall register itself under the control of a subscriber manager
RQ105	The user shall establish traces between requirements and other types of artifacts by establishing a subscription from an artifact to the relevant requirement
RQ106	Each artifact shall be placed under the control of a subscriber manager
RQ107	The user shall be able to delete subscriptions.
RQ108	A subscriber manager shall register itself with the eventserver so that it may receive relevant event messages.
RQ109	If the subscriber manager is online; the push model shall be used to send it event notifications in real time.
RQ110	Whenever the subscriber manager first comes on line; it shall implement the pull model to retrieve outstanding event messages from the eventserver.
RQ111	A subscriber manager shall receive event notifications on behalf of the artifacts that it manages.
RQ112	A subscriber manager shall manage traces for one or more artifacts.
RQ113	On receipt of an event message; the subscriber manager shall differentiate between speculative and evolutionary events.
RQ114	The subscriber manager shall store information for evolutionary events in an eventlog.
RQ115	The user shall be able to construct speculative queries using a GUI.
RQ116	The subscriber manager shall immediately process speculative events.
RQ117	The subscriber manager shall re execute the model using the speculative values.
RQ118	The subscriber manager shall report results indicating whether the speculative change negatively impacts other requirements and constraints.
RQ119	The subscriber manager shall restore the executable model to its prior state.
RQ120	The prototype system shall utilize a driver to trigger events.
RQ121	Event types shall include adding new requirements.
RQ122	Event types shall include decomposing one requirement into two or more requirements.
RQ123	Event types shall include refining one requirement by adding an additional requirement to the existing one.
RQ124	Event types shall include modifying a requirement.
RQ125	Event types shall include deleting a requirement.
RQ126	Event types shall include merging requirements.
RQ127	The eventserver shall receive event messages when a requirement changes.
RQ128	On receipt of an event message the eventserver shall record the event in an eventlog.
RQ129	On receipt of an event; the eventserver shall identify all relevant subscribers for the event.
RQ130	The eventserver shall differentiate between evolutionary and speculative events.
RQ131	When an evolutionary event occurs; the eventserver shall notify subscribers of the event.
RQ132	For speculative events; the eventserver shall construct a composite event message.
RQ133	The eventserver shall identify all related requirements and constraints for each impacted executable model.
RQ134	The eventserver shall retrieve quantitative values related to these additional requirements and constraints through querying the requirements management tool.
RQ135	The eventserver shall create a composite speculative message which includes the speculative event plus all related requirements and constraint values for each impacted model.
RQ136	The eventserver shall send the customized message to each impacted executable model.
RQ137	The user shall view all evolutionary events received for a specific artifact in the order in which they were received.
RQ138	The user shall update related artifacts according to the information contained in the event messages.
RQ139	The user shall eliminate unnecessary traces that were temporarily constructed by the eventserver during initial event processing.
RQ140	The notification processing system shall automatically eliminate any events that are not longer valid as a result of the user eliminating temporary traces.
